Luke, Julian, Cameron
CMSI 1010


Project Proposal:

Outline:

Cookie Clicker type game where a user clicks a cookie to accumulate more

Minimum:
Need a counter to go up when you click over an object
Win game at x amount of cookies
Maximum:
Tons of upgrades/achievements to enhance game
Idle progression?
Allow for game to progress infinitely
Prestige function if game is beaten?


Timeline:

Have a more detailed and fleshed out outline by the end of the week

Preferably, we should have the base done by 11/25/22 to have time to work on the extra upgrades

Last week of November: add comments, condense code, polish code, debug multiple scenarios

First week of December: work on presentation while we are working on adding the upgrades/achievements

Initial PyGame Window:


Classes:

Our project will have a shop class. Contains methods for each upgrade.

We will have a cookie object, adds cookies when clicked.

We will have button objects relating to upgrades

We will be using PyGame and PyCharm


Project Milestone:
	Our project is on time. We never really added more detail to our outline, but we all have the same vision and we all
know where our project is headed and what we want to do. Our code has a suggestions section so we can remember what to
add and potentially add more if we have time. We met last week’s milestones. Our base was more than done. We have a few
more functions to write, but for the most part, we are making good progress. This week's milestones were to add
comments, condense the code code, polish the code, and debug multiple scenarios. We have indeed added comments, our
code has been condensed for the most part, and the code has been polished. We still need to debug a few more scenarios
but that is not a worry at this time.
    So far we have implemented a way to when we click on the cookie, a counter goes up. On top of that, there are also
six different upgrades that impact the counter such as click upgrades or idle upgrades. The click upgrades impact how
much the counter goes up on each click while the idle upgrades increment the counter over time. We currently have music
and sound effects and are working on implementing it into the game. In the future, we need to make the game look more
aesthetically pleasing. So far the progress has been going well and we will most likely be able to implement and polish
more things before the final deadline.



As of submitting the project:
    Our project is a fully functional game that has been play-tested through multiple scenarios. The game has a win
condition and win screen. The game has 11 different upgrades that boost your cookie income. The project has 4 different
classes that each have different functions and variables. The project has working music and sound effects. We have met
our goals. Our vision has come to life and our original intentions were not altered except for the exception of two goals
we had originally whichy can be viewed in main.py.


Which team member did what?
Julian:
- Put initial code into classes (Shop, Music)
- Condensed code
- Added tick system for idle income
- Commented every comment found in code
- project_timeline.txt file
Luke:
- Wrote initial code
- Put initial code into classes (Counter)
- Added polish
- Chose images
- Organized code
- README.md file
Cameron:
- Made sound effects
- Wrote initial code
- Put initial code into classes (Shop)
- Added polish
- README.md file
- outside_libraries file



Difficulties with the project and what we took away:
    Our major difficulty was that the original project was coded without classes and functions. This meant we had to
spend a lot of time redefining variables and creating functions and classes to eliminate repeated code. We also had
trouble with lag, but Julian created a clock that fixed this issue. We had issues working with GitHub branches, so we
ultimately just worked over screenshare on Discord. We also found issues relating to accessing variables from different
classes. This process took troubleshooting, debugging, and a bit of review from previous lessons taught throughout the
year. We learned that Python, although not a traditional favorite for video game creation, is capable of creating fun
and unique games. We also took away an important aspect of game design: brainstorming. You should not begin working on
a project without having a fully thought out plan.
